---
layout: post
title:  "DE 2: PMOS & NMOS"
date:   2014-10-18 10:00:00
categories: de
---

### The MOSFET

A MOSFET (Metal-Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor) is a transistor that (so far in Digital Electronics) is used as an electronic switch, allowing for microscopic circuits (such as the billions, trillions, etc. in a single computer chip) that can turn on or off.

A MOSFET consists of four electric terminals: the gate (G), body (B), source (S), and drain (D).  When power is applied to the gate, electrons (or "holes" - the lack thereof) flow from the source to the drain, completing an electronic circuit similar to that of a hardware switch used to turn household lights on or off.  The source and drain are made of the same material while the body is of the opposite material.

There are two primary forms of a MOSFET: the P-type PMOS and the N-type NMOS.  In the N-type NMOS, the source and drain consist of an n-doped material, which allows for electrons to flow most easily through the channel while the body consists of an n-type material, which allows "holes" (or the lack of an electron) to flow most freely.  To explain this, the concept of Occam's Razor is used (or misused?): Electricity follows the path of least resistance.  N-doped material, created by replacing some Silicon atoms in a structure with atoms of a lesser valence, creates a substance in which the _electrons_ are thought to move, as electrons move rapidly to fill the cavities left by the material with fewer electrons.  P-doped material is the opposite process -- replacing some Silicon atoms with atoms of a greater valence -- in which the _"holes"_, or lack of an electron, are thought to move freely within the substance.

In the case of the NMOS transistor, when no power is applied, no charge is given as output.  As power is applied, charge increases.  The PMOS is the exact opposite, decreasing in power as charge is applied.

The PMOS and NMOS are both _transistors_ (root: transfer, or change) because they **amplify** or **switch** electronic current and _resistors_ because they can hold, release, and increase in electrical charge similar to the power function of a resistor.

### Transistor Circuits and RC Circuits

A transistor circuit is a circuit containing a voltage source, ground, and a transistor.  An RC circuit is one containing a voltage source, ground, resistor, and capacitor.

Both are used to switch the voltage between two sections of the circuit.  In the case of an RC circuit, voltage is being split from two areas by a resistor and a capacitor, while the transistor circuit uses a transistor to electronically switch the current from one area to another.

### Inverter Circuit

An inverter circuit is one where an input of zero volts (logic low) is inverted to a logic high voltage (Arduino: 5V or 3.3V) and vice versa.  In an inverter circuit, both a PMOS and NMOS are used.  The PMOS's source is connected to the logic voltage (logic high - or Vdd) while the NMOS source is connected to the ground.  This is done so that the inversion effect takes place.  If voltage is entering the circuit, the PMOS will charge to its full voltage using the _Vdd connected to its source_ and the NMOS will discharge to the drain and the result is logic zero.  In the opposite case, the NMOS will charge to its state of zero volts while the PMOS will discharge a voltage of logic high.
